# Sputnik Sweetheart by Haruki Murakami

1. This is where it all began, and where it all ended. Almost.
2. lose her ticket every time she took the train. She’d get so engrossed in her thoughts at times she’d forget to eat, and she was as thin as one of those war orphans
3. She carried a dogcared copy of On the Road or Lonesome Traveler stuck in her coat pocket, thumbing through them every chance she got. Whenever she came across lines she liked, she’d mark them in pencil and commit them to memory as if they were Holy Writ.
4. “Every day you stand on top of a mountain, make a 360° sweep, checking to see if there are any fires. And that’s it. You’re done for the day. The rest of the time you can read, write, whatever you want. At night scruffy bears hang around your cabin. That’s the life!
5. like biting down on the bitter end of a cucumber.”
6. Bach’s cantatas. In the 14
7. she’d have one beer and buy some ready-to-eat food at the supermarket for dinner. By 11 p.m. she’d settle down at her desk. There’d always be a thermos of hot coffee, a coffee mug (one I gave her on her birthday, with a picture of Snafkin on it), a pack of Marlboro and a glass ashtray. Of course she had a word processor as well. Each key with its very own letter.
8. “Writing novels is much the same. You gather up bones and make your gate, but no matter how wonderful the gate might be, that alone doesn’t make it a living, breathing novel. A story is not something of this world. A real story requires a kind of magical baptism to link the world on this side with the world on the other side.”
9. “Do you mean to tell me that when you’re having sex with a girl you imagine cucumbers in a fridge on a summer afternoon?” “Not all the time,” I said. “But sometimes.” “Maybe.” Sumire frowned and shook her head a couple of times. “You're a lot weirder than you look.” “Everybody’s something weird about them,”
10. A sunny veranda, houseplants, an Italian leather sofa, Bose speakers, a set of prints, a Jaguar in the garage. She lives there alone.
11. “The person here now isn’t the real me. Fourteen years ago I became half the person I used to be.
12. “Like a little lost Sputnik?”
13. Miu brought her hands together on the table, separated them, brought them together again. “Sumire has disappeared.” “Disappeared?” “Like smoke,” Miu said.
14. “Sumire told me in her letters about going to Paris from Milan,” I said. “Then about taking the train to Burgundy. You stayed at your friend’s large estate house in a Burgundy village.” “Well, then, I’ll pick up the story from there,” she said.
15. ‘The girl who was travelling with me has disappeared,’ I told him, ‘and hasn’t been back for two nights.’ He didn’t take me seriously.
16. | always feel driven to write. Why? It’s simple, really. In order for me to think about something, | have to first put it into writing. It’s been that way since | was little. When | didn’t understand something, | gathered up the words scattered at my feet, and lined them up into sentences. If that didn’t help, I’d scatter them again, rearrange them In a different order. Repeat that a number of times, and | was able to think about things like most people. Writing for me was never difficult. Other children gathered pretty stones or acorns, and | wrote. As naturally as breathing, I’d scribble down one sentence after another. And I’d think. No doubt you think It’s a time-consuming process to reach a conclusion, seeing as how every time | thought about something | had to go through all those steps.
17. I’m back to my old bad habit of cracking my knuckles. This bad habit made quite a comeback after | stopped smoking.
18. Lotte Lenya In From Russia with Love.
19. She—the Miu in the apartment—let
20. But another me, maybe half of me, had gone over to the other side. Taking with it my black hair, my sexual desire, my periods, my ovulation, perhaps even the will to live.
21. But | also love the Miu on the other side just as much. The moment this thought struck me it was like | could hear myself -with an audible creak—splitting in two.
22. She was stuck inside a Ferris wheel overnight in an amusement park in a small Swiss town, and looking through binoculars at her own room she saw a second self there. A doppelganger. And this experience destroyed Miu
23. Sumire and I had exposed our hearts to one another, an experience I’d never have with anyone else, anywhere. We cherished what we had together, though we never put into words how very precious it was. Of course it hurt that we could never love each other in a physical way. We would have been far happier if we had.
24. Did I do what was right? I didn’t think so. I’d only done what was necessary for me. There’s a big difference. Everyone? she’d asked me. Does that include me? Truthfully, at that time I wasn’t thinking about everyone. I was thinking only about Sumire. Not all of them there, or all of us here. Only of Sumire, who wasn’t anywhere.
25. Every time I met Carrot at school, I couldn’t help thinking that he was one strange child. I had no inkling of what thoughts were brewing behind that thin, calm face. But something was definitely going on under that placid exterior. And if push came to shove, he had the wherewithal to take action. I could sense something deep about him.
26. I picture Sumire in a phone box, lighting up a cigarette and pushing the buttons for my number. Her hair’s a mess; she has on a man’s herringbone jacket many sizes too big for her and mismatched socks. She frowns, choking a bit on the smoke. It takes her a long time to push all the numbers correctly. Her head is crammed full of things she wants to tell me. She might talk until dawn, who knows? About the difference, say, between symbols and signs.
27. Making the air of the real world tremble and shake. I grab the receiver. “Hello?” “Hey, I’m back,”
28. said Sumire. Very casual. Very real. “It wasn’t easy, but somehow I managed it. Like a 50-word précis of Homer’s Odyssey.” “That’s good,” I said. I still couldn’t believe it. Being able to hear her voice. The fact that this was happening. “That’s good?” Sumire said, and I could almost hear the frown. “What the heck do you mean by that? I’ve gone through
29. “When I couldn’t see you any more, I realized that. It was as clear as if the planets all of a sudden lined up in a row for me. I really need you. You're a part of me; I’m a part of you. You know, somewhere—I’m not at all sure where—I think I cut something’s throat. Sharpening my knife, my heart a stone. Symbolically, like making a gate in China.
30. We're both looking at the same moon, in the same world. We’re connected to reality by the same line. All I have to do is quietly draw it towards me. I spread my fingers apart and stare at the palms of both hands, looking for bloodstains. There aren’t any. No scent of blood, no stiffness. The blood must have already, in its own silent way, seeped inside.
